I don't have my own children
I don't want children but I get to leave
my intellectual and cognitive
fingerprints on a hundred kids a year
who are going out and hopefully becoming
more informed citizens and especially
being change agents of the community
poverty in education is a life-and-death
matter if I am getting kids prepared and
competitor for college then I'm setting
them on a trajectory for a better
happier healthier longer life there's a
very strong sense of community in my
classroom we're in this together I try
to cultivate sometimes it kind of like
us against the world mentality and I
actually like how that works if I'm
excited about teaching and they're
excited about learning if I'm not
excited about teaching why would they be
excited about learning if I walk in the
class and saying today kids we're going
to look at models of we're gonna look at
models of government around the world to
compare unitary government to Federalist
government first of all it's boring
second of all it has no relevance third
of all it doesn't hit them where they
are I start the government class by
explaining to them that government is
the most important thing in the world
they'll ever study and whether I believe
that or not who cares they believe it
and I had this whole rant
it's like calculus cannot draft you into
the military insignia war Spanish class
cannot execute you only government can
do that so it sails like teachings 1/3
sails 1/3 performance-art and then 1/3
actual instruction there's moments of
flow in the classroom where you have a
learning target the kids at the learning
target and you're making connections to
the text and they're connecting to their
own lives and when those moments are
flowing they don't happen all the time
like I wish they happen more often but
when they happen they're amazing they
are absolutely amazing and then like the
bell rings everies like ah class is over
already and I'm like yep come back
tomorrow 23 hour break like those
moments are great
you